# raftCSP
Model of the Raft distributed algorithm using CSP

#Title 

Analysis of Distributed algorithms using CSP

# Abstract 

Distributed algorithms lie in the background of many internet-based services, but what do we know about their correctness? There have been many high profile failures of these systems including just under a year ago, when the New York Stock Exchange halted trading due to an issue with a distributed algorithm. In this project we examine a consensus algorithm. Consensus algorithms are where a group of computers are able to agree on some data value, voted for by a majority of them. In addition to this, consensus algorithms need to be resilient to failure - we still want to agree on a value even if only a few computers go offline. The types of failure that can and do occour, and that we analyse, are machine based failures and network based failures. Beacause these algrothms are designed to be resilent to such failures, they can be used to maintain a high level of availblity even in unreliable networks. Some high profile users of consensus algorthms are Apache Zookeeper[1], Chubby[2] and Amazon Web Services. But despite the populatity of these utilities there have been few attempts to apply verifcation techniques to their underlying consenus algrothms [3, 4]. We pick Raft as the focus of this project due to its increased popularity, and the fact some implementations of Raft have contained errors. We explain the details of Raft alongside constructing a CSP model of the protocol. Throughout this construction we explain the modelling choices made, and the impact they have on the validity of the model. We then run refinement checks on the model, verifying key consensus properties about Raft. Then we run the same refinement checks but introduce the different failures modes we have described above into the model. Refinement checking Raft highlights issues with verifying consensus algorithms in general, specifically the difficulty in constructing a model that is verifiable. We show methods of reducing the complexity of the Raft model to reduce the state space of the problem. Finally we discuss the problems of verifying consensus algorithms and how they should be tackled.
